=for stopwords
sysbail printf-style Allbery FSFAP SPDX-License-Identifier

=head1 NAME

bail, sysbail - Report fatal test case errors to a TAP harness

=head1 SYNOPSIS

#include <tap/basic.h>

void B<bail>(const char *I<format>, ...);

void B<sysbail>(const char *I<format>, ...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

bail() reports a fatal error to a TAP test harness.  I<format> must be a
printf-style format string with possible optional arguments stating the
fatal error encountered.  This function prints a string like:

    Bail out! <reason>

to standard output after flushing it and then exits with an exit status of
255.

sysbail() is identical to bail() except that it appends a colon, a space,
and the results of strerror() on the current value of B<errno> to the end
of the error message.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

None.  bail() and sysbail() exit with an exit status of 255 after printing
the error message.

=head1 CAVEATS

Unlike most TAP library functions, I<format> in this case may not be NULL.
An error message must be provided.

=head1 AUTHOR

Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010, 2013 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and
this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP

=head1 SEE ALSO

diag(3), plan(3), strerror(3)

The current version of the C TAP Harness library is available from its web
page at L<https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/c-tap-harness/>.

=cut
