=for stopwords
nul Allbery FSFAP SPDX-License-Identifier

=head1 NAME

diag_file_add, diag_file_remove - Report diagnostics from a file in a TAP test

=head1 SYNOPSIS

#include <tap/basic.h>

void B<diag_file_add>(const char *I<file>);

void B<diag_file_remove>(const char *I<file>);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

diag_file_add() adds a log file on disk as a supplemental source of
diagnostic information for a TAP test case.  I<file> is the path to a file
that will be opened when diag_file_add() is called.  Before each TAP
function call that produces output, the file will be checked for any new
lines since the previous check.  If any are found, they will be output to
standard output as if they were passed to the diag() function, including
the leading C<#> and space.  This file may be called multiple times to add
multiple files.

Only complete lines ending in a newline will be output.  If at the time
the file is checked there is an incomplete line (no newline before end of
file), that output will be deferred until a later check sees a newline.
This means that any data at the end of a file without a newline will never
be output.

diag_file_remove() removes a file name previously passed to
diag_file_add() from the list of files checked for output.  The file name
must match the file name passed to diag_file_add() and need not point to
the actual file (if, for example, a subsequent chdir() changed the meaning
of relative file names).

=head1 RETURN VALUE

None.

=head1 CAVEATS

Zero bytes (nul characters) in the file are not supported and will result
in truncated output or other strange results.

File contents in registered files are ignored if skip_all() is called, and
is not output before the output of plan().  The output will appear after
the first output-producing function (or a regular program exit) after
plan().

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2013 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and
this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP

=head1 SEE ALSO

diag(3)

The current version of the C TAP Harness library is available from its web
page at L<https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/c-tap-harness/>.

=cut
