=for stopwords
const printf-style Allbery testnum FSFAP SPDX-License-Identifier

=head1 NAME

plan, plan_lazy - Set TAP test suite plan

=head1 SYNOPSIS

#include <tap/basic.h>

void B<plan>(unsigned long I<count>);

void B<plan_lazy>(void);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

plan() sets up a TAP test plan and prints out the initial output line that
tells the harness how many tests are expected.  It also sets up some
internal tracking in the TAP library, such as initializing the test number
and preparing to track how many tests succeeded and failed.  It should be
called before performing any tests, and takes the number of tests that
will be performed.

plan_lazy() is identical to plan() except that it does not specify the
number of tests to be performed.  Instead, the library will automatically
print out a plan line when the tests are complete, making the assumption
that the number of tests run was the number of tests planned.  This is not
the recommended approach for writing tests since, should the test program
exit in the middle for some reason, everything will appear to succeed.
But it can save time in writing test cases quickly and can make it easier
to write test cases where the number of tests are not known in advance.

After one of these functions has been called, the current test number,
maintained internally by the TAP library, is available as the global
variable B<testnum>.  If the test case must report test results without
using the TAP library functions, it can manipulate the B<testnum> variable
directly to maintain proper test numbering, but be aware that doing so
will cause the test summary reported at the end of the test case to be
incorrect.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

None.

=head1 CAVEATS

Only one of plan() or plan_lazy() should be called for a given test suite,
and one of them should be called before any tests are performed and before
any other TAP library functions except skip_all() are called.

=head1 AUTHOR

Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010, 2013 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and
this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP

=head1 SEE ALSO

bail(3), diag(3), is_int(3), ok(3), skip(3), skip_all(3)

The current version of the C TAP Harness library is available from its web
page at L<https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/c-tap-harness/>.

=cut
