=for stopwords
printf-style Allbery FSFAP SPDX-License-Identifier

=head1 NAME

skip_all - Tell a TAP harness that all of a test case is skipped

=head1 SYNOPSIS

#include <tap/basic.h>

void B<skip_all>(const char *I<format>, ...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

skip_all() tells a TAP harness that all of a test case is being skipped.
I<format> may be NULL to give no reason; if I<format> is not NULL, it
should be a printf-style format string with optional following arguments
that explains the reason why the test case was skipped.  skip_all() will
print an output line like:

    1..0 # skip <reason>

and then exit with an exit status of 0.  skip_all() must be called before
plan() or plan_lazy(), since it presents an alternative plan to the TAP
test harness.

skip_all() should be used if prerequisites for a test case are not met and
it would be meaningless to run that test case (if, for example, optional
test configuration is not present, or if the test case only applies to a
particular platform).

=head1 RETURN VALUE

None.  skip_all() exits the program with an exit status of 0 when called.

=head1 AUTHOR

Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010, 2013 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and
this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP

=head1 SEE ALSO

plan(3), skip(3)

The current version of the C TAP Harness library is available from its web
page at L<https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/c-tap-harness/>.

=cut
