=for stopwords
const printf-style Allbery FSFAP SPDX-License-Identifier

=head1 NAME

skip, skip_block - Skip a TAP test

=head1 SYNOPSIS

#include <tap/basic.h>

void B<skip>(const char *I<reason>, ...);

void B<skip_block>(unsigned long I<count>, const char *I<reason>, ...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

skip() marks the next test as skipped.  I<reason> may be NULL; if not
NULL, I<reason> should be a printf-style format string with optional
additional arguments specifying the reason why the test was skipped.
Common reasons to skip tests include tests that are not applicable to the
current platform, environment, or software configuration options, and
tests that rely on optional test configuration that isn't present.

skip_block() is identical to skip() except that it marks the next I<count>
tests as skipped.

To skip an entire test case, call skip_all() before plan() or plan_lazy()
rather than using these functions.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

None.

=head1 CAVEATS

plan() or plan_lazy() should always be called before calling skip() or
skip_block().

=head1 AUTHOR

Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010, 2013 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and
this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP

=head1 SEE ALSO

ok(3), plan(3), skip_all(3)

The current version of the C TAP Harness library is available from its web
page at L<https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/c-tap-harness/>.

=cut
