=for stopwords
Allbery FSFAP SPDX-License-Identifier

=head1 NAME

test_tmpdir, test_tmpdir_free - Manage temporary directory for TAP tests

=head1 SYNOPSIS

#include <tap/basic.h>

char *B<test_tmpdir>();

void B<test_tmpdir_free>(char *I<path>);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

test_tmpdir() creates a temporary directory for tests to use for transient
files and returns the path to that directory.  test_tmpdir_free() attempts
to remove the directory and then frees the path string.

The directory created will be named F<tmp> under the location named by the
C_TAP_BUILD environment variable, or under the current directory if
C_TAP_BUILD is not set.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

test_tmpdir() returns the path to the temporary directory.  It never
returns NULL; if any problems occur in creating the directory, it calls
bail() to exit the test instead.  Note that the path may be relative if
the environment variable C_TAP_BUILD is not set or is relative itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2011, 2013, 2016 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice and
this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP

=head1 SEE ALSO

bail(3), runtests(1)

The current version of the C TAP Harness library is available from its web
page at L<https://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/c-tap-harness/>.

=cut
